So let's take a look at CS,
the circuit switch domain, and
PS the package switch domain.
In CS, circuit switch, there is
a physical connection between Bob and
Alice throughout the call, and
that goes through the central
office where they're connected.
In the package switch domain,
there is no such central control.
All the users talk over the medium
whenever they have some
information to communicate.
And the information is
broken into small packets,
and each packet actually carries
the control information,
where it is coming from, where it needs to
go, and the data that it needs to take.
So, if some of them are lost
in transmission, or condition,
the reason mechanism to
retransmit them for reliability.
So let's say Doug owes George $20.
George keeps asking Doug for
the $20 till he receives it and
the transaction is completed.
The take away here is that there
is no dedicated connection
between George and Doug during
this transaction of getting $20.
A simple way
to describe package
switching is this animation.
The routing and transferring of data
by means of addressed packets so
that a channel is occupied during
the transmission of the packet only.
And upon completion, the transmission
channel is made available for
the traffic from other users.
There are provisions for
duplicate packets, missed packets,
by retransmission and quite often
packets would arrive at Host B,
or Host 2, and
different order than intended.
So Host 2 actually does reordering of the
packets to make the complete information.